Create 0109-client-user-session.md (#110)
getsentry/rfcs: text/0109-client-user-session.md

would want to see all events from an individual user loading the page and navigating a site or mobile application views. 

They are frustrated because they want to be able to filter the data for a specific user in Discover, 
and the set of events available are incomplete.

# Proposals

**Example:**

1. A user is in Discover and tries to filter transactions by a user, `john@doe.com`, because this user reported a problem.
2. The events `AppStart` and `DownloadEditionMigration` appear, but still also need
3. the `graphQL call/query` that should happen within this set of interactions.

### Proposed Solutions:

1. A short term solution (do nothing): Use some unique identifiers from the user or SDK initialization to tag all events and make them
   searchable in discover
    
    > save us a lot of time if we were able to identify evens from that user
    > 
    
    Would the default `userId`  work in this case?
    
    > If you don't provide an `id` the SDK falls back to `installationId`, which the SDK randomly generates once during an app's installation.
    > 
    

>     https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/android/enriching-events/identify-user/

Reviewer: Another con: The default `userId` can be overwritten once `Sentry.setUser()` is called, thus loosing the connection before/after a user logged into an app.
I see we have `Context->Device->Id` on Android, but I'm not sure if this is provided by other platforms.

    
    Setting any value like this as a tag would be indexed and then searchable in discover. A persistent unique userId set by the org,
    could allow to track all sampled “sessions” of the unique user. Which may be unecessary. A random ID for each session will allow
    to group just that session no specific relationship to the user.
    
    If this ID is to be used as well in DSC to associate other events via distributed tracing that would also need to be done manually
    by the user
    
    1. **con:** this will not influence any biases and there could still be missing events

>     2. **con**: this would also include multiple app starts when using the `installationId`

Reviewer 2: this could be remedied on the app side by generating ids for sessions in the client code (e.g. set unique id on login / clear on logout)

2. Longer term solution: 
    1. react-native SDK

>         1. SDK provides a way for users to generate a sessionID 

Reviewer 2: SDK should auto-generate sessions in a meaningful way to works for most apps (e.g. generate unique id on setUser and app start) and ideally provide an API to override this.

>             1. could simple be a version of the initializationID

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            1. could simply be a version of the `installationId`
```

            2. could be experimental flag for now
            3. automatically propagated this in DSC
                1. session concept similar to SR with multiple traces connected to single trace
            4. consider a sampling option, 
                1. similar to SR that states if there is an error to have a higher sample rate for those user sessions

>                 2. potentially long txn times as a decider in client for deciding

Reviewer 2: to clarify: does that mean that as soon as there is an error or a long txn (tbd how to determine this), the SDK starts to sample everything for that session? which also means that previous events are not available

Reviewer 3: +1 on this question
the problem is that error often happens later, and we have already made sampling decisions for the given trace/session on the server at that point

            5. existing APIs around session may lead to confusion
            6. client side sampling:  SDK should ensure that if an event as part of a session included then all other events within
               that session are included as well

>                 1. identifying a unique session default experience, identifying by a particular user requires the user to decide with

Reviewer 2: I don't fully understand this - is this referring to the default experience when looking up sessions on the product?
